tightly grip workpieces when installed into a 5C collet chuck or holder. They provide a stronger hold on small workpieces than a standard lathe chuck.

collets to securely hold round-shank tool bits in the R8 spindle of a milling machine. They have internal threads.

collet chuck or holder to tightly grip round-shank tool bits in milling machines.

collet chuck or holder to tightly grip round shank tool bits in milling machines.

collet chuck or holder to tightly grip round workpieces. They provide a stronger hold on small workpieces than a standard lathe chuck. These collets have both external and internal threads.
collet chuck or holder to tightly grip round-shank tool bits in milling machines.
collet chuck or holder to tightly grip round-shank tool bits in milling machines.
collets in milling machines that have an ER-25 collet chuck. With a round face and adjustable body, they compress to grip round-shank drill bits, end mills, reamers, and taps.

To ensure they work with milling machines and tooling made throughout the world, these collets meet both ISO and DIN dimensional standards.
collets securely grip round workpieces. They provide a stronger hold on small workpieces than a standard lathe chuck. All have external threads.
collets tightly grip workpieces when installed into a 5C collet chuck or holder. Also known as emergency collets, their machinable face allows you to bore an opening to exactly the size and shape you need. All have external and internal threads.
The head on these collets acts like a mandrel to support the inside of a hollow workpiece. An expanding screw widens the head to firmly grip the workpiece. It can be machined to fit the exact ID of your part. All have external threads.
Insert into a 16C collet chuck or holder to tightly grip workpieces. Also known as emergency collets, their machinable face allows you to bore an opening to exactly the size and shape you need. All have external and internal threads.
When installed into a 3J collet chuck or holder, these collets can securely grip workpieces. Also known as emergency collets, their machinable face allows you to bore an opening to exactly the size and shape you need. All have external threads.
Also known as step collets, their wide head can be machined to hold large workpieces that won't fit in a standard collet. They have external threads.
Save time when switching to a new workpiece by changing out the head instead of the entire collet. Also known as step collets, their wide head can be machined to hold large workpieces that won't fit in a standard collet.
Use these collets to securely hold round-shank tool bits in the R8 spindle of a milling machine. They have internal threads.
These collets tightly grip workpieces when installed into a 5C collet chuck or holder. They provide a stronger hold on small workpieces than a standard lathe chuck.
Securely hold collets in the spindle of a milling machine.

Use a nut wrench (sold separately) to tighten the chuck nut and secure the tool bit in the collet.
The sleeve on these mandrels expands to hold a range of IDs for better versatility than solid and expanding-end mandrels. They can hold the workpiece at any position along the sleeve. To use, insert the sleeve into the workpiece before inserting the small end of the tapered body into the sleeve and pushing until it's tight. Mandrels are also known as arbors.
Use an arbor press to secure the narrow end of one of these tapered mandrels into the hole of a workpiece. The wide end has a flat for use with a lathe driver when turning between centers. Mandrels are also known as arbors.
